feat(console): added phising and fraud guidelines (#3206)
scaleway/docs-content: console/account/troubleshooting/protecting-yourself-fraud-phishing.mdx

---
meta:
  title: Protecting yourself against phishing and fraud

>   description: This page helps you to protect yourself against phishing and fraud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description: This page provides information to protect yourself against phishing and fraud
```

content:
  h1: Protecting yourself against phishing and fraud

>   paragraph: This page helps you to protect yourself against phishing and fraud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  paragraph: This page provides information to protect yourself against phishing and fraud
```

tags: login unrecognized-ip phising fraud
dates:
  validation: 2024-05-22
  posted: 2024-05-22
categories:
  - console
---

Phishing and fraud attempts are a significant threat to online security. This guide provides essential steps to safeguard your Scaleway account from such attacks.

## Recognizing phishing attempts

Phishing is a method where attackers trick you into providing personal information by pretending to be a trusted entity. These attempts can come via email, phone calls, or fake websites.

### Signs of phishing

- **Urgency or threats:** Messages that create a sense of urgency, warning of account closure or legal action.
- **Suspicious links:** Emails containing links that do not match the legitimate Scaleway URL (e.g., slight misspellings).
- **Attachments:** Unexpected attachments that may contain malware.
- **Unusual sender:** Emails from unrecognized or suspicious email addresses.

### Actions to take

> - **Verify the sender:** Always check the email address of the sender to ensure it’s from an official Scaleway domain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Verify the sender:** Always check the email address of the sender to ensure it is from an official Scaleway domain.
```
